9 December 2015As part of the Broadcasting Digital Migration project, Minister of Communications Ms Faith Muthambi will install first batch of government subsidised Set-Top-Boxes (STB s) to the community of Keimoes, Kai Garib Municipality, Northern Cape on the 17th of December, 2015. Keimoes is located within the Square Kilometre Array (SKA) area, where the world's largest radio telescope will be built.Over 2400 households in the Northern Cape, SKA area have registered to receive government set-top-boxes in line with government's commitment to provide 5 million indigent household owners in possession of TV sets, with free decoders. The registration process was kick started by Muthambi at a public event in Keimoes at the beginning of October 2015. Government will distribute 23 thousand set-top-boxes free of charge to the community around the SKA area in the Northern Cape. The installation of government's fully subsidised set-top-boxes starts here in the Square Kilometre Array (SKA) area. Television viewing experience will never be the same for many households here in the Northern Cape," said Muthambi. This progress marks a significant milestone of the Broadcasting Digital Migration project , said Muthambi. The SKA area in the Northern Cape was identified as the place where the digital migration project will first be implemented. It is quite fitting that this rollout starts here, given the huge leap forward that the SKA represents in innovation and technological advancement, added Muthambi. This is the first installation of Digital Terrestrial STB s in South Africa since the digital terrestrial television policy was gazetted in March 2015.Towns around SKA area in the Northern Cape include: Brandvlei, Britstown, Calvinia, Carnavon, Fraserburg, Groblershoop, Kakamas, Keimoes, Kenhardt, Loeriesfontein, Marydale, Nieuwoudtville, Pofadder, Springbok, Sutherland, Vanwyksvlei, Victoria West and Williston.The Department of Communications stakeholders will be present at this event. The South African Post Office, which is the distributing agent for the set-top-box devices on behalf of government, will also be onsite on the day to explain the process of registering TV households.Details of the event are as follows: Date: Thursday, 17th December, 2015 Venue: Keimoes, Kai! Garib Municipality, Northern Cape Time: 10amEnquiries: Mish Molakeng 082 469 3997 Issued by GCIS on behalf of the Ministry of Communications